# remarkRehype

Turn markdown into HTML. ##### Notes ###### Signature * if a processor is given, runs the (rehype) plugins used on it with a hast tree, then discards the result (*bridge mode*) * otherwise, returns a hast tree, the plugins used after `remarkRehype` are rehype plugins (_mutate mode_) > 👉 **Note**: > It’s highly unlikely that you want to pass a `processor`. ###### HTML Raw HTML is available in mdast as `html` nodes and can be embedded in hast as semistandard `raw` nodes. Most plugins ignore `raw` nodes but two notable ones don’t: _ `rehype-stringify` also has an option `allowDangerousHtml` which will output the raw HTML. This is typically discouraged as noted by the option name but is useful if you completely trust authors _ `rehype-raw` can handle the raw embedded HTML strings by parsing them into standard hast nodes (`element`, `text`, etc); this is a heavy task as it needs a full HTML parser, but it is the only way to support untrusted content ###### Footnotes Many options supported here relate to footnotes. Footnotes are not specified by CommonMark, which we follow by default. They are supported by GitHub, so footnotes can be enabled in markdown with `remark-gfm`. The options `footnoteBackLabel` and `footnoteLabel` define natural language that explains footnotes, which is hidden for sighted users but shown to assistive technology. When your page is not in English, you must define translated values. Back references use ARIA attributes, but the section label itself uses a heading that is hidden with an `sr-only` class. To show it to sighted users, define different attributes in `footnoteLabelProperties`. ###### Clobbering Footnotes introduces a problem, as it links footnote calls to footnote definitions on the page through `id` attributes generated from user content, which results in DOM clobbering. DOM clobbering is this: ``html <p id=x></p> <script>alert(x) // `x` now refers to the DOM `p#x` element</script> `` Elements by their ID are made available by browsers on the `window` object, which is a security risk. Using a prefix solves this problem. More information on how to handle clobbering and the prefix is explained in _Example: headings (DOM clobbering)_ in `rehype-sanitize`. ###### Unknown nodes Unknown nodes are nodes with a type that isn’t in `handlers` or `passThrough`. The default behavior for unknown nodes is: _ when the node has a `value` (and doesn’t have `data.hName`, `data.hProperties`, or `data.hChildren`, see later), create a hast `text` node _ otherwise, create a `<div>` element (which could be changed with `data.hName`), with its children mapped from mdast to hast as well This behavior can be changed by passing an `unknownHandler`.

**Return Type:** `TransformBridge`

## Parameters

| Name        | Type                                     | Optional | Description               |
| :---------- | :--------------------------------------- | :------- | :------------------------ | ---- | -------------------- |
| `processor` | `Processor`                              | No       | @param {Readonly<Options> | null | undefined} [options] |
| `options`   | `Readonly<Options> \| null \| undefined` | Yes      | -                         |
